# CRD API Demo: Employee Roster

This is a simple example of a CRD based application, with which a client
interacts by manipulating custom resources.

This application tracks employees in a company a aggregates their information
in a ConfigMap. users of the application can add and remove employees from
the rosterm or update their information, by manipulating `Employee` custom
resources. A reconciler, which is registered as an extension of the Kubernetes
API server, is responsible for reconciling the state of the roster in accordance
with the user's requirement as expressed by `Employee` objects.

The CRD and controller skeleton code are generated by
[KubeBuilder](https://kubebuilder.io), a CRD API development framework. You can
recreate this project from scratch by following this document.

# Setup

1. In a new directory `demo/`, initialize a new Go project
   ```console
   $ mkdir demo && cd demo
   demo/$ go mod init github.com/adowair/cnr-na22
   go: creating new go.mod: module github.com/adowair/cnr-na22
   ```
3. If you haven't already, install KubeBuilder using your favorite package
   manager
   ```console
   demo/$ brew install kubebuilder
   ```
4. Initialize a KubeBuilder project
   ```console
   demo/$ kubebuilder init
   Writing kustomize manifests for you to edit...
   Writing scaffold for you to edit...
   Get controller runtime:
     $ go get sigs.k8s.io/controller-runtime@v0.13.0
   Update dependencies:
     $ go mod tidy
   Next: define a resource with:
     $ kubebuilder create api
   ```
5. Create a new API kind `Employee`, specifying its group and version.
   You will be prompted to create the resource and its controller-agree
   to both
   ```console
   demo/$ kubebuilder create api --group cnr-na22 --version v1 --kind Employee
   Create Resource [y/n]
   y
   Create Controller [y/n]
   y
   ```
   This step will create both CRD
   ([api/v1/employee_types.go](api/v1/employee_types.go)) and controller
   ([controllers/employee_controller.go](controllers/employee_controller.go))
   templates for you to customize.
6. In [api/v1/employee_types.go](api/v1/employee_types.go), specify the fields
   for the Employee object's spec and status. A yaml file describing the CRD
   can be generated from this Go struct representation by running
   `make manifests`
   ```console
   demo/$ make manifests
   ```
   Once you are ready to install the CRDs, run `make install`.
7. In ([controllers/employee_controller.go](controllers/employee_controller.go)),
   add your reconcile loop logic in `EmployeeReconciler.Reconcile()`
   ```go
   func (r *EmployeeReconciler) Reconcile(ctx context.Context, req ctrl.Request) (ctrl.Result, error) {
      _ = log.FromContext(ctx)
      // TODO: Your code here.
   }

   ```
   To build the manager image, run `make build`. To deploy the manager
   in a local session, run `make run`. Otherwise, you can also build, push,
   and deploy the manager directly on the cluster by doing:
   ```console
   demo/$ make docker-buildx
   demo$/ make deploy
   ```